README.md, before:

# Whisper-FastAPI

Whisper-FastAPI is a very simple Python FastAPI interface for konele and OpenAI services. It is based on the `faster-whisper` project and provides an API for konele-like interface, where translations and transcriptions can be obtained by connecting over websockets or POST requests.

## Features

- **Translation and Transcription**: The application provides an API for konele service, where translations and transcriptions can be obtained by connecting over websockets or POST requests.
- **Language Support**: If no language is specified, the language will be automatically recognized from the first 30 seconds.
- **Websocket and POST Method Support**: The project supports a websocket (`/konele/ws`) and a POST method to `/konele/post`.
- **Audio Transcriptions**: The `/v1/audio/transcriptions` endpoint allows users to upload an audio file and receive transcription in response, with an optional `response_type` parameter. The `response_type` can be 'json', 'text', 'tsv', 'srt', and 'vtt'.
- **Simplified Chinese**: The traditional Chinese will be automatically convert to simplified Chinese for konele using `opencc` library.

## GPT Refine Result

You can choose to use the OpenAI GPT model for post-processing transcription results. You can also provide context to GPT to allow it to modify the text based on your context.

Set the environment variables `OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1` and `OPENAI_API_KEY=your-sk` to enable this feature.

When the client sends a request with `gpt_refine=True`, this feature will be activated. Specifically:

- For `/v1/audio/transcriptions`, submit using `curl <api_url> -F file=audio.mp4 -F gpt_refine=True`.
- For `/v1/konele/ws` and `/v1/konele/post`, use the URL format `/v1/konele/ws/gpt_refine`.

The default model is `gpt-4o-mini` set by environment variable `OPENAI_LLM_MODEL`.

You can easily edit the code LLM's prompt to better fit your workflow. It's just a few lines of code. Give it a try, it's very simple!

## Usage

### Konele Voice Typing

For konele voice typing, you can use either the websocket endpoint or the POST method endpoint.

- **Websocket**: Connect to the websocket at `/konele/ws` (or `/v1/konele/ws`) and send audio data. The server will respond with the transcription or translation.
- **POST Method**: Send a POST request to `/konele/post` (or `/v1/konele/post`) with the audio data in the body. The server will respond with the transcription or translation.

You can also use the demo I have created to quickly test the effect at <https://yongyuancv.cn/v1/konele/post>

### OpenAI Whisper Service

To use the service that matches the structure of the OpenAI Whisper service, send a POST request to `/v1/audio/transcriptions` with an audio file. The server will respond with the transcription in the format specified by the `response_type` parameter.

You can also use the demo I have created to quickly test the effect at <https://yongyuancv.cn/v1/audio/transcriptions>

My demo is using the large-v2 model on RTX3060.

## Getting Started

To run the application, you need to have Python installed on your machine. You can then clone the repository and install the required dependencies.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/heimoshuiyu/whisper-fastapi.git
cd whisper-fastapi
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You can then run the application using the following command: (model will be download from huggingface if not exists in cache dir)

```bash
python whisper_fastapi.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5000 --model large-v2
```

This will start the application on `http://<your-ip-address>:5000`.

## Limitation

Defect: Due to the synchronous nature of inference, this API can actually only handle one request at a time.

Commit message:

add home assistant wyoming api

README.md, after:

# Whisper-FastAPI

Whisper-FastAPI is a very simple Python FastAPI interface for konele and OpenAI services. It is based on the `faster-whisper` project and provides an API for konele-like interface, where translations and transcriptions can be obtained by connecting over websockets or POST requests.

## Features

- **Translation and Transcription**: The application provides an API for konele service, where translations and transcriptions can be obtained by connecting over websockets or POST requests.
- **Language Support**: If no language is specified, the language will be automatically recognized from the first 30 seconds.
- **Konele Support**: Konele (or k6nele) is an open-source voice typing application on Android. This project supports a websocket (`/konele/ws`) and a POST method to `/konele/post`.
- **Home Assistant Support**: By default it listen to `tcp://0.0.0.0:3001` for wyoming protocol.
- **Audio Transcriptions**: The `/v1/audio/transcriptions` endpoint allows users to upload an audio file and receive transcription in response, with an optional `response_type` parameter. The `response_type` can be 'json', 'text', 'tsv', 'srt', and 'vtt'.
- **Simplified Chinese**: The traditional Chinese will be automatically convert to simplified Chinese for konele using `opencc` library.

## GPT Refine Result

You can choose to use the OpenAI GPT model for post-processing transcription results. You can also provide context to GPT to allow it to modify the text based on your context.

Set the environment variables `OPENAI_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1` and `OPENAI_API_KEY=your-sk` to enable this feature.

When the client sends a request with `gpt_refine=True`, this feature will be activated. Specifically:

- For `/v1/audio/transcriptions`, submit using `curl <api_url> -F file=audio.mp4 -F gpt_refine=True`.
- For `/v1/konele/ws` and `/v1/konele/post`, use the URL format `/v1/konele/ws/gpt_refine`.

The default model is `gpt-4o-mini` set by environment variable `OPENAI_LLM_MODEL`.

You can easily edit the code LLM's prompt to better fit your workflow. It's just a few lines of code. Give it a try, it's very simple!

## Usage

### Konele Voice Typing

For konele voice typing, you can use either the websocket endpoint or the POST method endpoint.

- **Websocket**: Connect to the websocket at `/konele/ws` (or `/v1/konele/ws`) and send audio data. The server will respond with the transcription or translation.
- **POST Method**: Send a POST request to `/konele/post` (or `/v1/konele/post`) with the audio data in the body. The server will respond with the transcription or translation.

You can also use the demo I have created to quickly test the effect at <https://yongyuancv.cn/v1/konele/post>

### OpenAI Whisper Service

To use the service that matches the structure of the OpenAI Whisper service, send a POST request to `/v1/audio/transcriptions` with an audio file. The server will respond with the transcription in the format specified by the `response_type` parameter.

You can also use the demo I have created to quickly test the effect at <https://yongyuancv.cn/v1/audio/transcriptions>

My demo is using the large-v2 model on RTX3060.

## Getting Started

To run the application, you need to have Python installed on your machine. You can then clone the repository and install the required dependencies.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/heimoshuiyu/whisper-fastapi.git
cd whisper-fastapi
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You can then run the application using the following command: (model will be download from huggingface if not exists in cache dir)

```bash
python whisper_fastapi.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5000 --model large-v2
```

This will start the application on `http://<your-ip-address>:5000`.

## Limitation

Defect: Due to the synchronous nature of inference, this API can actually only handle one request at a time.
